Hi, Mystery Recapped here.
Today I’m going to explain a Japanese drama
film called “Survival Family,” Spoilers
ahead!
Watch out and take care!
The Suzuki family is a family of four living
in the suburban part of Tokyo.
At the beginning of the movie, we see them
in their small apartment.
The father, Yoshiyuki Suzuki is enjoying watching
the television while his son, Kenji, and daughter
Yui are on their phones.
We see that the family is wholly dependent
on technology to keep themselves entertained
and hardly ever spend time with each other.
The following morning, Yoshiyuki wakes up
late and sees that his alarm clock isn’t
working.
He rushes outside and asks his wife Mitsue
what time it is, only to find out none of
the clocks work.
Mitsue also tells him everything that runs
on electricity has stopped working because
of a power outage.
Yui wakes up and freaks out to see the AC
and the TV aren’t working either.
Yoshiyuki tries to call the electricity company,
but even the phone is down too.
The father and the children quickly get dressed
and head outside for work and school.
They see a crowd at the elevator waiting for
it to arrive but soon find out that the power
outage has halted the elevator as well.
Everyone from the floor walks downstairs,
confused at the strange and sudden outage.
Yoshiyuki is already late, so he rushes to
the train station but comes across a crowd
again.
It turns out the outage has halted the trains,
so they won’t be able to travel through
it until further notice.
People try taking a bus as an alternative,
but all electrically and fueled-powered systems
are down.
At the same time, we see Kenji going to school
on his bicycle.
The usually bustling city has no running vehicles.
A confused Kenji cycles further to see everyone
walking to work.
Two grown-ups even eye his bicycle, jealous
of the kid.
When Yoshiyuki finally reaches his office,
it turns out the automated front doors are
shut.
It is even weirder that none of their watches
are working, so they do not know what time
it is.
After contemplating for a while, two of his
colleagues break the glass door and go inside
to work.
But disappointment soon washes over them when
they realize the computers in the office have
run out of power as well.
Meanwhile, Mitsue meets her friends outside
the apartment and discusses the power outage.
Her friends rush to the store to get some
candles for the night.
Mitsue is confused because she believes the
power will be back by night but follows her
friends anyway.
At the grocery store, people stock up on food,
water, and supplies.
Mitsue does the same and waits in a long line
to pay for the stuff.
Since the machines are not working, the cashier
announces they will only take cash.
This way, some people get off the line to
bring money out from the ATM, only to see
that ATMs do not work either.
At Yoshiyuki’s office, people realize that
this isn’t just a normal power outage, but
they are not sure what exactly is wrong.
Their boss dismisses them for the day since
they cannot work without computers.
While returning home, Yoshiyuki goes to a
bicycle shop.
The prices of bicycles are high because of
the outage but Yoshiyuki buys one nonetheless.
At night, the Suzuki family lights candles
around the house and eats their dinner in
peace.
Kenji goes to the washroom only to find that
the toilet doesn’t flush; at the same time,
the taps stop working too.
Yui is confused because the electricity outage
shouldn’t cause taps to malfunction.
After dinner, the children go back to their
room like usual, but they soon get bored without
their phones and the internet.
The whole family then gathers at the balcony
and gazes at the sky.
The dark city enhances the light coming from
the stars.
The family enjoys quality time together after
ages.
It is now the third day after the power outage;
the family’s apartment is in bad shape.
Dirty plates pile up in the sink because of
water scarcity, and dirty laundry hangs around
the apartment.
Without electricity, the lifestyle of the
people has changed drastically in just three
days.
At Yoshiyuki’s office that day, his senior
asks everyone to stop coming to work till
the power comes back.
Yoshiyuki retaliates, saying if they don’t
work, they won’t earn money, but his senior
asks him to take care of his family instead.
He claims that living in a city like Tokyo
will be extremely difficult during such conditions
because they will soon run out of food and
water.
Outside the office, Yoshiyuki sees his senior
with his family leaving for the countryside.
Yoshiyuki contemplates doing the same but
still has hope everything will go back to
normal.
Later we see Mitsue go to a nearby water tank
to get water, but she, along with the crowd,
is sent back because even the tank runs out
of drinking water.
Meanwhile, Yoshiyuki goes to the bank to withdraw
some money but returns after being shoved
around by the crowd.
It is now the seventh day of the power outage.
All grocery stores have been wiped out of
food and supplies, offices and schools have
closed, and the power outage has caused all
factories to shut down.
More and more people are moving to the countryside,
and the Suzuki family decides to do the same.
The following day, they pack up their bags
and leave early in the morning on their bicycles.
The children ride their own while Yoshiyuki
keeps Mitsue on the back of his bicycle.
They have to buy drinking water midway, but
all the shops overprice it.
Mitsue bargains and manages to get some at
a relatively low price.
They stop at a place to rest and eat for the
day and immediately set off after getting
done.
Finally, they reach the airport from where
they plan to take the flight to Mitsue’s
village Kagoshima where her father lives.
They were told that flights were still working,
but disappointment washes over them when they
see a crowd outside the airport complaining
to the officials.
It turns out that the flights have been recently
canceled and won’t restart until the power
comes back.
With nowhere to go, the family ends up in
a hotel nearby.
The owner of the hotel takes advantage of
their situation and charges them outrageous
prices.
But the family doesn’t complain.
At night Yui suggests they go back home, but
according to Yoshiyuki, there is no food or
water left in Tokyo, so it is impossible to
survive there.
They will have to make it to Kagoshima on
bicycles.
The following day, Kenji and Yui go to a bookstore
and get a map to navigate the locations.
Meanwhile, the parents barter two bottles
of Yoshiyuki’s alcohol for a bicycle and
some food.
Then the family continues their journey.
After a few hours, they finally reach a highway
where several travelers like them are traveling
to the countryside.
At night they stop at a camp and decide to
stay there with fellow travelers.
A couple sees them drinking water and asks
for some, but the family lies about it being
the last bottle.
They eat the food and fall asleep.
On the next day, they continue the journey
and end up in a dark tunnel filled with corpses.
They are helped by old ladies to cross it.
It is now sixteen days after the power outage.
The family is by a river when their last bottle
of water runs out.
With no other way, Yoshiyuki drinks the water
from the river directly.
After they leave the riverside, a massive
storm hits, making the family abandon their
bicycles and belongings and take shelter in
a nearby area.
After the storm, they go back to their bikes
to see one of their tires had been destroyed.
Moreover, all their clothes and food supplies
are ruined as well.
Soon, they reach a nearby town, and the kids
go searching for food and water, leaving Yoshiyuki
and Mitsue behind to rest.
They are excited to find a grocery store but
see everything from the food section is gone.
Kenji searches for a bicycle tire, but they
are sold out as well.
He then finds battery water which is just
distilled water and can be used to drink.
Yui gets cat food and brings them back to
their parents.
She tries the cat food for the first time
and finds it disgusting, but the family has
to compromise to survive.
Kenji fixes the tire using his phone’s cover,
and they continue their journey again.
They survive on battery water and cat food
for a week before meeting a group of campers
on the twenty-second day.
The campers teach them about edible roadside
weeds.
One of them takes a picture of the family
from a non-digital camera and promises to
send it to them when the power comes back.
They travel together for a few hours then
go their separate ways.
On day forty-three, they arrive in front of
an aquarium where the people catch fish and
eat them.
The family happily gets into the line as they
have limited food left now.
But by their turn, everything is sold.
Yoshiyuki begs the man selling the fish to
give some to the kids, only to be ignored.
A disappointed family moves along with the
journey but soon gets tired because of the
lack of food and water.
One day, they end up in a field where Yoshiyuki
is about to eat an insect.
Just then, they see a pig nearby.
The family is overjoyed when Yoshiyuki manages
to catch the pig but they are reluctant to
cut it, even while starving.
Just then, a man approaches them and slices
the pig himself.
He introduces himself as Tanaka and asks the
family to help him get the pig to his farm.
At his home, he treats the family with a meal.
They devour it completely, having starved
the past few days.
For the next week, they stay with Tanaka but
then decide to continue their journey to the
village again.
Three days later, they end up by a river.
It turns out the map they were following was
old, so now, they have to cross the river
to get to their destination.
They create a make-do raft with pieces of
wood and manage to get Mitsue and Yui to the
other end.
Then, Yoshiyuki and Kenji return to get the
bicycles.
However, just then, it starts to rain, and
the water flows faster, taking Yoshiyuki with
it.
Kenji tries his best to save his father but
only finds his wig in the water.
The family sits by the river crying, mourning
Yoshiyuki’s death.
Sometime later, they continue their journey
on foot.
The three make it to day ninety-four because
of the food they had stocked up at Tanaka.
They are walking along a railway track when
suddenly, some dogs attack Mitsue, making
her fall off the road.
The kids run to save their mother, only to
see that her leg is broken.
They get her back on the track but are attacked
by the dogs again.
Just then, the noise of a steam train is heard.
The family is beyond surprised when the train
stops in the tracks to pick them up.
Since it runs on coal, the train is still
functional.
People inside dress Mitsue’s injuries and
help the family.
In the following scene, we see Yoshiyuki’s
body washed up by the river.
Fortunately, he wakes up and manages to get
himself to a nearby truck.
Just then, the steam train his family is in
passes by.
Yoshiyuki uses a smoke torch to get the people’s
attention.
Finally, the train stops, and the family reunites
happily.
The train then takes him to their destination.
They meet Mitsue’s father after years and
start living with him.
In the following scene, we see two years and
126 days have passed after the power outage.
The Suzuki family has been living in the beautiful
village of Kagoshima.
They live a happy life fishing and weaving
their own clothes.
One day, Yoshiyuki wakes up to an alarm clock
ringing.
Then, the whole village wakes up to the power
on coming back.
Light bulbs start to work, and phones start
ringing.
Everyone is beyond surprised, but no one knows
for sure what brought the power back.
A few weeks later, the family is back to their
old life in Tokyo.
The news says that the two and a half year
long outage was because of a solar flare from
the sun.
Some believe it was a terrorist organization's
doing, but the reason is still not confirmed.
The movie ends as the family receives a picture
that a stranger had taken of them while they
were traveling.
The power outage taught people to appreciate
small things in life that they took for granted.
Like the Suzuki family who didn’t care about
each other was brought closer than ever because
of the hardship they had to face.
Subscribe for more videos like this, turn
on notifications, and leave a like to help
the channel out.
Thank you for watching.